To test our animations on the character I'm going to try and keep things fairly simple mainly because
I'm not an expert programmer.
I don't code or script very well.
I can do it just enough to get things to work to test a character here in Unity but I'm certainly not
an expert.
And if you take a look at this third person controller over here that comes from unity and you take
a look at the third person character script I'm going to click here and choose.
EDIT Script and take a look at the script here.
I'm just going to scroll down here.
There is a lot going on here.
The movement and the leaning when he turns and the crouching and just there's so much here and I'm certainly
not going to go through trying to create a script like this for this course.
And frankly I don't know that I could.
This is some pretty complex stuff.
Also then in addition we have the user controls here for the camera and the controls for a mobile device
and there's just a lot going on.
So I think it's beyond my personal capabilities to go into great detail here I'm not the one to learn
scripting from but what I can do is create a very simple script that will allow us to at least test
our animations on our character run them around and make sure it's all working okay.
And then if I was part of a team that was creating a game I would hand it off then to the actual programmers.
So my interest is really in trying to come up with a very simple script that will at least test the
animations on the character and just like we set up our animations over here in the player idle we're
gonna need to do that for the jump and the run.
We've already tried the humanoid RIG.
I'M GOING TO GO BACK OVER HERE TO RIG.
We've already tried this.
Let's now use the generic because generic is for things that aren't quite humanoid specific.
So maybe it's a dragon with a tail.
Maybe it's a dragon with two heads or something like that or maybe it's a Lego character with weird
claw hands.
So let's go ahead and set our character up generic right here so once I do that I click apply and we
go now let's go over to animation and we've still got our idol here and we don't have all the green
lights down here because the humanoid system isn't trying to figure out whether it's a cycling animation
or not but we do want to make sure loop time is clicked here.
If I hit the play button you can see it go through its animation here.
And it looks pretty good from beginning to end and that's fine.
So let's go and pause that now.
The player jump.
I've already gone through and deleted all of the actions here.
Just like in the idol and I've renamed it jump.
We don't want a loop time here.
So I've uncheck this and for the run I've also gone through and deleted all of those actions renamed
it to run and I've chosen loop time here since that animation that running animation will cycle again
and again.
So if we hit the play button here you can see there he goes All right.
So now that we have our animation setup our rigs as generic what we need to do is setup that animator
for our character.
I'm going to go ahead and delete this third person controller here just go to right click and delete
and that'll just take us back to the beginning.
Now we can take this idol with our new rig settings and drag them up into the hierarchy and drop him
there.
We do need to take our character material and drop it on our guy there.
And in addition let me bring up the face objects.
I'll just type in face there and for these we can go ahead and hide them in the scene.
In fact actually while we're here I'll go ahead and drag the materials on and then disable it in the
scene view.
Here's the jump.
Let's drag that on and disable it.
And here's the run.
Let's drag that over here and disable it.
Okay so now we have our character pretty much all set up the way we had it before.
I'm gonna go ahead and press control s and save our scene.
Now we need to set up the animator here when we re targeted the animation we just removed it.
We just deleted it and use the one in the third person controller but now we have to deal with this
and set it up for ourselves and what we need is an animator controller to go right here in this slot.
So since we don't have one we just need to create one let's go down here and right click choose create
and let's create an animator controller and we go and let's call this player controller All right.
So now we select our player idle up here in the hierarchy.
We can grab that player controller and drag it over and drop it in our animator.
So now we have our own controller and our own avatar.
Now there's more to configuring the animator that we need to do.
We've got an animator tab here.
If you don't see that you can always go to window and animation and animator and that will bring this
up here.
Let's go ahead and go over here and what we need to do is set up the animator in here and we need to
create or drag in an animation that's gonna be our entry animation and then we need to drag in the others
the run and the jump.
So let's go down here to our player idol.
Let's twirl this down and scroll down and we can see that Idol animation here.
That's the one that we've set up in the inspector so going to click and drag and drop and there we go.
Now we've got this initial transition when we hit play.
This is what's going to play first.
You can see over here when we select that transition it says default entry transition.
If we were to hit play now let's see what happens.
I'll play.
So there you go.
You can see him going through his idle animation lets it play to stop that go over to the scene view
and let's move that camera I will select the move tool here and let's just move that camera forward
and then I'll select the rotate tool and I'm just gonna spin it around like this.
You know we go.
In fact I can just come over here and type a negative 180.
There we go.
And maybe I'll go to the move tool again and move it in just a little bit closer like this and there
we go.
So now we can see him now hit play
and there he is.
Now you can see him going through his idle animation and that's all we needed to do to kick that off
if we stop that and go back to our animator.
Now we need to figure out how to use our jump and run animations in here.
Well first of all we need to just drag them in.
So let's scroll down the player jump find that jump animation and let's just drag that in.
There we go.
And then for the run let's scroll this down grab the run and drag that in there too.
And we go so we've got the run the jump and the idle and just like we have this transition going in
from the entry point into the idol.
We need transitions going from idle to run and then back again.
And from idle to jump and then back and also from the run to the jump and from the jump to the run.
So we need to create several transitions here.
And when we do we also need to create a parameter that will allow us in our script to tell unity which
animation to play when a particular key is pressed on the keyboard.
So let's say I push the up arrow on the keyboard we want the run animation to begin.
And if I hit the spacebar on the keyboard I want the jump animation to begin.
So we need a parameter that allows us to tell unity what to do.
What animation to play when we hit a particular keyboard button.
So let's go ahead and create a new parameter.
I'm going to click plus here and I'll create an integer.
Now you can use a boolean I've seen people use boolean and it works just fine.
But in my head I can understand the way an integer works for this a little bit better let's give it
a name.
I'm going to call this annum pa or animation parameter.
And now let's create our transition so let's create our first transition from the idol to the run.
I will right click on the Idol choose.
Make transition pull the mouse down and then left click the mouse.
And that creates that transition.
So let's select it now.
And here we have it going from the idol to the run.
If we hit the play button here we can see him idling and idling and idling and then run.
So that's all we have there.
We want to create a condition here that says if this condition if this integer is one let's say then
he should begin the run he should transition from the idol to the run.
So let's go ahead and hit the plus here we get the animation parameter here since it's the only one
we've created.
And we want to say if the Animation Parameter equals 1 then what it should do is transition to the run
and when this happens we want it to happen immediately as soon as we hit the button.
We want them to begin the run animation.
So we want to turn off exit time.
He doesn't need any exit time from from the idol to the run so I'll uncheck that.
All right so that's good.
But what if he stops running and goes back to THE IDOL HOW DO WE DO THAT.
WELL LET'S right click choose make transition and create a transition back to the idol.
Let's select this one.
Now let's create a condition let's say that if the Animation Parameter is equal to zero then we transition
back to the idol and we do it immediately.
We don't need any exit time here.
So if we have the play you can see he runs.
And then he goes immediately back to the idol animation.
All right.
So we use the integer 1 for the run.
How about we use integer 2 for the jump.
So let's right click on the Idol choose make transition and let's drag this over here and click.
Now for this transition we want the Animation Parameter to equal to how we go.
And we wanted to happen immediately so we'll turn off exit time.
So now if we play he'll Idol and Idol and Idol and then we'll jump.
There we go.
So that's what we want.
Now if he jumps and immediately goes back to the idol animation we need to set up that transition.
So I'll choose make transition drag over here and click.
Now let's select that one and we need to say that if there is a condition where the Animation Parameter
equals zero we go to the idol.
Right.
Just like this one over here.
So anytime the Animation Parameter equals zero it's always going to go back to the idol animation.
All right.
So this one with zero I need to turn off exit time here as well.
Now what happens if we go from the run to the jump or the jump to the run.
Let's make a transition from the run to the jump and Let's select that and let's say that if the Animation
Parameter equals what the jump is to write the idol is zero run is one jump is two.
So if it equals two we want to transition from the run to the jump.
And we want to do it immediately.
And now how about from the jump to the run.
So for this one we want it to be one.
Right.
We want the Animation Parameter to equal one which would take it to the run 0.
And we want to have it happen immediately so we'll turn off exit time.
So basically the idol is zero.
Anytime the Animation Parameter equals zero we're going to transition to the idol.
Any time that parameter is one we're going to transition to the run.
And anytime the parameter is 2 we will transition to the jump.
All right.
So that sets up our animator here what we'll do in the next video is actually begin creating the script
that will allow us to change that Animation Parameter from 0 to 1 to 2 and back again.